## OAuth:

OAuth is an open-standard authorization protocol or framework that describes how unrelated servers and services can safely allow authenticated access to their assets without actually sharing the initial, related, single logon credential. In authentication parlance, this is known as secure, third-party, user-agent, delegated authorization.

### OAuth examples

The simplest example of OAuth is when you go to log onto a website and it offers one or more opportunities to log on using another website’s/service’s logon. You then click on the button linked to the other website, the other website authenticates you, and the website you were originally connecting to logs you on itself afterward using permission gained from the second website.

Another common example OAuth scenario could be a user sending cloud-stored files to another user via email, when the cloud storage and email systems are otherwise unrelated other than supporting the OAuth framework (e.g., Google Gmail and Microsoft OneDrive). When the end-user attaches the files to their email and browses to select the files to attach, OAuth could be used behind the scenes to allow the email system to seamlessly authenticate and browse to the protected files without requiring a second logon to the file storage system. Another example, one given in the OAuth 2.0 RFC, is an end-user using a third-party printing service to print picture files stored on an unrelated web server.

The first website connects to the second website on behalf of the user, using OAuth, providing the user’s verified identity.

The second site generates a one-time token and a one-time secret unique to the transaction and parties involved.

The first site gives this token and secret to the initiating user’s client software.

The client’s software presents the request token and secret to their authorization provider (which may or may not be the second site).

If not already authenticated to the authorization provider, the client may be asked to authenticate. After authentication, the client is asked to approve the authorization transaction to the second website.

The user approves (or their software silently approves) a particular transaction type at the first website.

The user is given an approved access token (notice it’s no longer a request token).

The user gives the approved access token to the first website.

The first website gives the access token to the second website as proof of authentication on behalf of the user.

The second website lets the first website access their site on behalf of the user.

The user sees a successfully completed transaction occurring.

OpenID is about authentication: as a commenter on StackOverflow pithily put it: "OpenID is for humans logging into machines, OAuth is for machines logging into machines on behalf of humans."


Auth0 uses the OpenID Connect (OIDC) Protocol and OAuth 2.0 Authorization Framework to authenticate users and get their authorization to access protected resources. With Auth0, you can easily support different flows in your own applications and APIs without worrying about OIDC/OAuth 2.0 specifications or other technical aspects of authentication and authorization.
