### How would you break a mock into a component heirarchy?

draw boxes around every component (and subcomponent) in the mock and give them all names then Separate your UI into components, where each component matches one piece of your data model.

### What is the single responsibility principle and how does it apply to components?

Its a techniques that is a component should ideally only do one thing. If it ends up growing, it should be decomposed into smaller subcomponents.

### What does it mean to build a ‘static’ version of your application?

Its a way to build a version of our app that renders the data model

### Once you have a static application, what do you need to add?

Identify The Minimal (but complete) Representation Of UI State

### What are the three questions you can ask to determine if something is state?

1- Is it passed in from a parent via props? If so, it probably isn’t state.

2- Does it remain unchanged over time? If so, it probably isn’t state.

3- Can you compute it based on any other state or props in your component? If so, it isn’t state.


### How can you identify where state needs to live?

1- For each piece of state in the application:

2- Identify every component that renders something based on that state.

3- Find a common owner component (a single component above all the components that need the state in the hierarchy).

4- Either the common owner or another component higher up in the hierarchy should own the state.

5- If you can’t find a component where it makes sense to own the state, create a new component solely for holding the state and add it somewhere in the hierarchy above the common owner component.

----------

references:

https://reactjs.org/docs/thinking-in-react.html
