## Reading and Writing Files in Python:

a file is a contiguous set of bytes used to store data. This data is organized in a specific format and can be anything as simple as a text file or as complicated as a program executable. In the end, these byte files are then translated into binary 1 and 0 for easier processing by the computer.


### Files on most modern file systems are composed of three main parts:


-Header: metadata about the contents of the file (file name, size, type, and so on)

-Data: contents of the file as written by the creator or editor

-End of file (EOF): special character that indicates the end of the file

### File Paths


When you access a file on an operating system, a file path is required. The file path is a string that represents the location of a file. It’s broken up into three major parts:

-Folder Path: the file folder location on the file system where subsequent folders are separated by a forward slash / (Unix) or backslash \ (Windows)

-File Name: the actual name of the file

-Extension: the end of the file path pre-pended with a period (.) used to indicate the file type


###  Line Endings:

 Windows uses the CR+LF characters to indicate a new line, while Unix and the newer Mac versions use just the LF character. This can cause some complications when you’re processing files on an operating system that is different than the file’s source


 ### Character Encodings:

 ASCII is actually a subset of Unicode (UTF-8), meaning that ASCII and Unicode share the same numerical to character values. It’s important to note that parsing a file with the incorrect character encoding can lead to failures or misrepresentation of the character. For example, if a file was created using the UTF-8 encoding, and you try to parse it using the ASCII encoding, if there is a character that is outside of those 128 values, then an error will be thrown.

 --------------------------------

 ## Opening and Closing a File in Python
When you want to work with a file, the first thing to do is to open it. This is done by invoking the open() built-in function. open() has a single required argument that is the path to the file. open() has a single return, the file object:

file = open('dog_breeds.txt')


reader = open('dog_breeds.txt')

try :

    # Further file processing goes here

finally :

    reader.close()




-------------------------------------------

## Python Exceptions:

Exceptions versus Syntax Errors
Syntax errors occur when the parser detects an incorrect statement. Observe the following example:

>>> print( 0 / 0 ))
  File "<stdin>", line 1
    print( 0 / 0 ))
                  ^
SyntaxError: invalid syntax
The arrow indicates where the parser ran into the syntax error. In this example, there was one bracket too many. Remove it and run your code again:

>>> print( 0 / 0)
Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "<stdin>", line 1, in <module>
ZeroDivisionError: integer division or modulo by zero
This time, you ran into an exception error. This type of error occurs whenever syntactically correct Python code results in an error. The last line of the message indicated what type of exception error you ran into.

Instead of showing the message exception error, Python details what type of exception error was encountered. In this case, it was a ZeroDivisionError. Python comes with various built-in exceptions as well as the possibility to create self-defined exceptions.




Raising an Exception
We can use raise to throw an exception if a condition occurs. The statement can be complemented with a custom exception.

Illustration of  raise statement usage
If you want to throw an error when a certain condition occurs using raise, you could go about it like this:

x = 10
if x > 5:
    raise Exception('x should not exceed 5. The value of x was: {}'.format(x))
When you run this code, the output will be the following:

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "< input >, line 4, in <module >
Exception: x should not exceed 5. The value of x was: 10
The program comes to a halt and displays our exception to screen, offering clues about what went wrong.


### The AssertionError Exception:

Instead of waiting for a program to crash midway, you can also start by making an assertion in Python. We assert that a certain condition is met. If this condition turns out to be True, then that is excellent! The program can continue. If the condition turns out to be False, you can have the program throw an AssertionError exception.