## Linked Lists:

### What is a Linked List:

A Linked List is a sequence of Nodes that are connected/linked to each other. The most defining feature of a Linked List is that each Node references the next Node in the link.

There are two types of Linked List - Singly and Doubly. We will be implementing a Singly Linked List in this implementation.

**********************

Singly - Singly refers to the number of references the node has. A Singly linked list means that there is only one reference, and the reference points to the Next node in a linked list.

Doubly - Doubly refers to there being two (double) references within the node. A Doubly linked list means that there is a reference to both the Next and Previous node.

Node - Nodes are the individual items/links that live in a linked list. Each node contains the data for each link.

Next - Each node contains a property called Next. This property contains the reference to the next node.

Head - The Head is a reference of type Node to the first node in a linked list.

Current - The Current is a reference of type Node to the node that is currently being looked at. When traversing, you create a new Current variable at the Head to guarantee you are starting from the beginning of the linked list.


### Traversal:

When traversing a linked list, you are not able to use a foreach or for loop. We depend on the Next value in each node to guide us where the next reference is pointing. The Next property is exceptionally important because it will lead us where the next node is and allow us to extract the data appropriately.

The best way to approach a traversal is through the use of a while() loop. This allows us to continually check that the Next node in the list is not null. If we accidentally end up trying to traverse on a node that is null, a NullReferenceException gets thrown and our program will crash/end.


### Traversal Big O:

The Big O of time for Includes would be O(n). This is because, at its worse case, the node we are looking for will be the very last node in the linked list. n represents the number of nodes in the linked list.

The Big O of space for Includes would be O(1). This is because there is no additional space being used than what is already given to us with the linked list input.


## Adding a Node:

### Adding O(1):

Order of operations is extremely important when it comes to working with a Linked List. What I mean by this is you must be careful that all references to each link/node is properly assigned.

An example can be with adding a node to a linked list. If we want to add a node with an O(1) efficiency, we have to replace the current Head of the linked list with the new node, without losing the reference to the next node in the list.

Here are the required steps to add a new node with an O(1) efficiency.

We can then instantiate the new node that we are adding. The values passed in as arguments into the Add() method will define what the value of the Node will be.

Singly Linked List

newNode.Next by default is set to null. We want to set newNode.Next property to the same location that the Head node is pointing towards. Because Head is just a reference type, we will be assigning it to the same allocation in memory as the node it is pointing too. In this case, it’s Node1.

Singly Linked List

At this point in the program we now “technically” have newNode at the beginning of the linked list, but we are not done yet. We now have to re-assign where Head is pointing too. Since Node1 is no longer the first node in the list, we want to re-assign Head to point at newNode.


--------------------------------

## Linear data structures:

One characteristic of linked lists is that they are linear data structures, which means that there is a sequence and an order to how they are constructed and traversed. We can think of a linear data structure like a game of hopscotch: in order to get to the end of the list, we have to go through all of the items in the list in order, or sequentially. Linear structures, however, are the opposite of non-linear structures. In non-linear data structures, items don’t have to be arranged in order, which means that we could traverse the data structure non-sequentially.

## Memory management:

The biggest differentiator between arrays and linked lists is the way that they use memory in our machines. Those of us who work with dynamically typed languages like Ruby, JavaScript, or Python don’t have to think about how much memory an array uses when we write our code on a day to day basis because there are several layers of abstraction that end up with us not having to worry about memory allocation at all.


## Parts of a linked list:

A linked list can be small or huge, but no matter the size, the parts that make it up are actually fairly simple. A linked list is made up of a series of nodes, which are the elements of the list.
The starting point of the list is a reference to the first node, which is referred to as the head. Nearly all linked lists must have a head, because this is effectively the only entry point to the list and all of its elements, and without it, you wouldn’t know where to start! The end of the list isn’t a node, but rather a node that points to null, or an empty value.

----------------------


## Big O:

is a way of evaluating the performance of an algorithm.
There are two major points to consider when thinking about how an algorithm performs: how much time it requires at runtime given how much time and memory it needs.

-----------

## create a linked list:

1- First, we find the head node of the linked list.

2- we’ll make our new node, and set its pointer to the current first node of the list.

3- we rearrange our head node’s pointer to point at our new node.
