## matplotlib is:

Probably the single most used Python package for 2D-graphics. It provides both a very quick way to visualize data from Python and publication-quality figures in many formats. We are going to explore matplotlib in interactive mode covering most common cases.

-----
## IPython : 

 is an enhanced interactive Python shell that has lots of interesting features including named inputs and outputs, access to shell commands, improved debugging and much more. When we start it with the command line argument -pylab (--pylab since IPython version 0.12), it allows interactive matplotlib sessions that have Matlab/Mathematica-like functionality.

 ------

## pyplot:

pyplot provides a convenient interface to the matplotlib object-oriented plotting library. It is modeled closely after Matlab(TM). Therefore, the majority of plotting commands in pyplot have Matlab(TM) analogs with similar arguments. Important commands are explained with interactive examples.

----

## Simple Plotting

 we want to draw **cosine and sine** functoins on the same plot
  1. get the data for sine and cosine functions
```python
import numpy as np
X = np.linspace(-np.pi, np.pi, 256, endpoint=True)
C, S = np.cos(X), np.sin(X)
```
- X is now a representation of a NumPy array with 256 values ranging from -π to +π (included) 

- C is the cosine (256 values) and S is the sine (256 values)

----

### Matplotlib comes with a set of defaults that can be altered

    -- change colors and line widths
    -- set limits *xlim()* and *ylim()*
    -- setting ticks (*xticks()*, *yticks()*, tick container, and tick locating and formatting)
    -- set tick labels *set_xticklabels()* / *set_yticklabels*
    -- move spines
    -- adding a legend *legend()*
    -- annotate axis

    ------

## Subplots:

With subplot you can arrange plots in a regular grid. You need to specify the number of rows and columns and the number of the plot. Note that the gridspec command is a more powerful alternative.

## Axes:

Axes are very similar to subplots but allow placement of plots at any location in the figure. So if we want to put a smaller plot inside a bigger one we do so with axes.

-----

## Ticks:

Well formatted ticks are an important part of publishing-ready figures. Matplotlib provides a totally configurable system for ticks. There are tick locators to specify where ticks should appear and tick formatters to give ticks the appearance you want. Major and minor ticks can be located and formatted independently from each other. By default minor ticks are not shown, i.e. there is only an empty list for them because it is as NullLocator.

----

## Animation:

The most easy way to make an animation in matplotlib is to declare a FuncAnimation object that specifies to matplotlib what is the figure to update, what is the update function and what is the delay between frames.

### Drip drop:

A very simple rain effect can be obtained by having small growing rings randomly positioned over a figure. Of course, they won't grow forever since the wave is supposed to damp with time. To simulate that, we can use a more and more transparent color as the ring is growing, up to the point where it is no more visible. At this point, we remove the ring and create a new one.