# Hashtables:

## What is a Hashtable?

### Terminology:

Hash - A hash is the result of some algorithm taking an incoming string and converting it into a value that could be used for either security or some other purpose. In the case of a hashtable, it is used to determine the index of the array.

Buckets - A bucket is what is contained in each index of the array of the hashtable. Each index is a bucket. An index could potentially contain multiple key/value pairs if a collision occurs.

Collisions - A collision is what happens when more than one key gets hashed to the same location of the hashtable.

## Why do we use them?

Hold unique values

Dictionary

Library

## What Are they

Hashtables are a data structure that utilize key value pairs. This means every Node or Bucket has both a key, and a value.

The basic idea of a hashtable is the ability to store the key into this data structure, and quickly retrieve the value. This is done through what we call a hash. A hash is the ability to encode the key that will eventually map to a specific location in the data structure that we can look at directly to retrieve the value.

Since we are able to hash our key and determine the exact location where our value is stored, we can do a lookup in an O(1) time complexity. This is ideal when quick lookups are required.

## Example

```["Greenwood:98103", "Downtown:98101", "Alki Beach:98116", "Bainbridge Island:98110", ...]```

Now, we want to be able to search through the data to look up a neighborhood and obtain it’s zip code. We could do this using a for loop that looks through each piece of data one by one until it finds the neighborhood name, then returns the zip code there. This would be an O(N) read operation because it requires searching through each piece of data to find the one piece we want.

Arrays actually have fast access. If we know the index of the information we want we can access that information in O(1) time. The reason why searching for a piece of data in a collection is O(N) isn’t because the array is slow, it’s just that we have to look through all N things in the collection.

Hash maps take advantage of an array’s O(1) read access. Instead of adding elements to an array from beginning to end, a hash map uses a “hash function” to place each item at a precise index location, based off it’s key.

Basically, the hash function takes a key and returns an integer. We use the integer to determine where the key/value pair should be placed in the array. The hash code is calculated in constant time and writing to an array at one index is O(1) so the hash map has O(1) access.

The hash code is used again to read something from the hash map. Take the key, run it through the hash code to get a number, use that number to index the array. Calculating the hash code and reading an array at that index is all constant time to the hash map has O(1) read access!

## Structure:

## Hashing:

Basically, a hash code turns a key into an integer. It’s very important that hash codes are deterministic: their output is determined only by their input. Hash codes should never have randomness to them. The same key should always produce the same hash code.

## Creating a Hash:

A hashtable traditionally is created from an array. I always like the size 1024. this is important for index placement. After you have created your array of the appropriate size, do some sort of logic to turn that “key” into a numeric number value. Here is a possible suggestion:

Add or multiply all the ASCII values together.

Multiply it by a prime number such as 599.

Use modulo to get the remainder of the result, when divided by the total size of the array.

Insert into the array at that index.

## Collisions:

A collision occurs when more than one key hashes to the same index in an array. As mentioned earlier, a “perfect hash” will never have any collisions. To put this into perspective, the worst possible hash is one that hashes every single key to the same exact index of an array. The more keys you have hashed to a specific index, the more key/value pair combos you can potentially have.

Collisions are solved by changing the initial state of the buckets. Instead of starting them all as null we can initialize a LinkedList in each one! Now if two keys resolve to the same index in the array then their key/value pairs can be stored as a node in a linked list. Each index in the array is called a “bucket” because it can store multiple key/value pairs.

```hashMap.Add("Pioneer Square", 98104); hashMap.Add("Alki Beach", 98116);```

```Bucket 92: [{Pioneer Square: 98104} --> {Alki Beach: 98116}]```

### Hash maps do this to store values:

accept a key:

calculate the hash of the key
use modulus to convert the hash into an array index
store the key with the value by appending both to the end of a linked list

## Internal Methods:

Add()

Find()

Contains()

GetHash()

---------------------------------


## Basics of Hash Tables:


Hashing is a technique that is used to uniquely identify a specific object from a group of similar objects. Some examples of how hashing is used in our lives include:

In universities, each student is assigned a unique roll number that can be used to retrieve information about them.
In libraries, each book is assigned a unique number that can be used to determine information about the book, such as its exact position in the library or the users it has been issued to etc.
In both these examples the students and books were hashed to a unique number.

Assume that you have an object and you want to assign a key to it to make searching easy. To store the key/value pair, you can use a simple array like a data structure where keys (integers) can be used directly as an index to store values. However, in cases where the keys are large and cannot be used directly as an index, you should use hashing.

In hashing, large keys are converted into small keys by using hash functions. The values are then stored in a data structure called hash table. The idea of hashing is to distribute entries (key/value pairs) uniformly across an array. Each element is assigned a key (converted key). By using that key you can access the element in O(1) time. Using the key, the algorithm (hash function) computes an index that suggests where an entry can be found or inserted.

## Hashing is implemented in two steps:

An element is converted into an integer by using a hash function. This element can be used as an index to store the original element, which falls into the hash table.
The element is stored in the hash table where it can be quickly retrieved using hashed key.

hash = hashfunc(key)
index = hash % array_size

In this method, the hash is independent of the array size and it is then reduced to an index (a number between 0 and array_size − 1) by using the modulo operator (%).

## Hash function:

A hash function is any function that can be used to map a data set of an arbitrary size to a data set of a fixed size, which falls into the hash table. The values returned by a hash function are called hash values, hash codes, hash sums, or simply hashes.

To achieve a good hashing mechanism, It is important to have a good hash function with the following basic requirements:

Easy to compute: It should be easy to compute and must not become an algorithm in itself.

Uniform distribution: It should provide a uniform distribution across the hash table and should not result in clustering.

Less collisions: Collisions occur when pairs of elements are mapped to the same hash value. These should be avoided.

Note: Irrespective of how good a hash function is, collisions are bound to occur. Therefore, to maintain the performance of a hash table, it is important to manage collisions through various collision resolution techniques.

Need for a good hash function

Let us understand the need for a good hash function. Assume that you have to store strings in the hash table by using the hashing technique {“abcdef”, “bcdefa”, “cdefab” , “defabc” }.

To compute the index for storing the strings, use a hash function that states the following:

The index for a specific string will be equal to the sum of the ASCII values of the characters modulo 599.

As 599 is a prime number, it will reduce the possibility of indexing different strings (collisions). It is recommended that you use prime numbers in case of modulo. The ASCII values of a, b, c, d, e, and f are 97, 98, 99, 100, 101, and 102 respectively. Since all the strings contain the same characters with different permutations, the sum will 599.

The hash function will compute the same index for all the strings and the strings will be stored in the hash table in the following format. As the index of all the strings is the same, you can create a list on that index and insert all the strings in that list.