## Guide to Docker:

## Install Docker:

To install Docker we need to download the desktop app on our computer and create a free account. The initial download of Docker might take some time to download. It’s a big file. Feel free to stretch your legs at this point!

Once Docker is done installing we can confirm the correct version is running. It should be at least version 19.


Docker Compose is an additional tool that is automatically included with Mac and Windows downloads of Docker. However if you are on Linux, you will need to add it manually. You can do this by running the command

sudo pip install docker-compose after your Docker installation is complete.

Now run the command below to confirm you have a working version of it, too. The version should be at least 1.24.x.


Hello, World
To confirm Docker installed correctly we can run our first command docker run hello-world. This will download an official image and then run the container. We’ll discuss both images and containers shortly.

A good command to inspect Docker is docker info which we can run now. It will contain a lot of output but focus on the top lines which show we now have 1 container which is stopped and 1 image.

There is the hello-world image which we just downloaded. How about inspecting containers, either running, paused, or stopped?

I have shortened the actual about for CREATED and STATUS to fit but we can see the container for hello-world. The NAMES here, musing_raman, is randomly created by Docker unless we specifically set it so your name will likely be different.

Also, why do we need ls -la here instead of ls? The answer is because the container is stopped! Only running containers will appear with docker container ls.

## Images and Containers:

Images and containers are the two fundamental concepts to grasp when you start with Docker. An image is a snapshot in time of what a project contains. A container is a running instance of the image.

When we ran hello-world we used an official Docker image. We did not have to create the image ourself. But typically we will create custom images and we do so using a Dockerfile. We also will use docker-compose.yml files to run the containers.

A baking analogy we can use here is as follows:

A Dockerfile is the recipe for a cake

An image is a snapshot of the recipe at a given time

A docker-compose.yml says how to make the cake

And the container is the actual, baked cake

There are a large number of official images available on Docker Hub for common software like different 

flavors of Linux, programming languages, and so on. For example, the Hello World image is there.

## Images:

create our own image for something more “real.” How about the Python programming language? We can create an image and container just for Python and later add on to it.

First create a local directory on your computer for our code. I’ve chosen to make a code folder on my Desktop (I’m using an Apple computer) and then a python3.7 folder within that.

Now we need to define the image with a Dockerfile. This is similar to a Pipenv or a requirements.txt file; it is a list of all the requirements needed to build our image. It is simpler to have them all in one place rather than install each manually line-by-line.

## Image Builds:

With our instructions complete it’s time to “build” or create the image for the first time. Don’t forget that period . at the end of the command!

There will be a lot of output here ending with Successfully built and the hash id, b2c276538711, for the image. The actual id hashes may change by the time you read this post as each image continually updated by the Docker community.

We can list all existing Docker images to confirm this new one has been built alongside the initial alpine image.

## Image Layers:

Every image is made up of one or more image layers. The base layer is often a flavor of Linux, like alpine. When we built the image for python:3.7-alpine this image had the id b2c276538711. But that image depended on five other images which were visible while building it.

## Containers:

To demonstrate a real-world image and container example we will now “Dockerize” a basic Django web app. You might not fully understand every step but you’ll see how Docker can work to run a web application completely on its own.