## Permissions


## How permissions are determined

Permissions in REST framework are always defined as a list of permission classes.

Before running the main body of the view each permission in the list is checked. If any permission check fails an exceptions.PermissionDenied or exceptions.NotAuthenticated exception will be raised, and the main body of the view will not run.

When the permissions checks fail either a "403 Forbidden" or a "401 Unauthorized" response will be returned, according to the following rules:

- The request was successfully authenticated, but permission was denied. — An HTTP 403 Forbidden response will be returned.

- The request was not successfully authenticated, and the highest priority authentication class does not use WWW-Authenticate headers. — An HTTP 403 Forbidden response will be returned.

- The request was not successfully authenticated, and the highest priority authentication class does use WWW-Authenticate headers. — An HTTP 401 Unauthorized response, with an appropriate WWW-Authenticate header will be returned.

## Object level permissions:

REST framework permissions also support object-level permissioning. Object level permissions are used to determine if a user should be allowed to act on a particular object, which will typically be a model instance.

Object level permissions are run by REST framework's generic views when .get_object() is called. As with view level permissions, an ```exceptions.PermissionDenied``` exception will be raised if the user is not allowed to act on the given object.

If you're writing your own views and want to enforce object level permissions, or if you override the ```get_object``` method on a generic view, then you'll need to explicitly call the ```.check_object_permissions(request, obj)``` method on the view at the point at which you've retrieved the object.

This will either raise a ```PermissionDenied``` or ```NotAuthenticated``` exception, or simply return if the view has the appropriate permissions.


-------------------------

## Setting the permission policy

The default permission policy may be set globally, using the DEFAULT_PERMISSION_CLASSES setting.

```
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    'DEFAULT_PERMISSION_CLASSES': [
        'rest_framework.permissions.IsAuthenticated',
    ]
}
```

If not specified, this setting defaults to allowing unrestricted access:
```
'DEFAULT_PERMISSION_CLASSES': [
   'rest_framework.permissions.AllowAny',
]
```

You can also set the authentication policy on a per-view, or per-viewset basis, using the APIView 
class-based views.

```
from rest_framework.permissions import IsAuthenticated
from rest_framework.response import Response
from rest_framework.views import APIView

class ExampleView(APIView):
    permission_classes = [IsAuthenticated]

    def get(self, request, format=None):
        content = {
            'status': 'request was permitted'
        }
        return Response(content)
```

Or, if you're using the @api_view decorator with function based views.
```
from rest_framework.decorators import api_view, permission_classes
from rest_framework.permissions import IsAuthenticated
from rest_framework.response import Response

@api_view(['GET'])
@permission_classes([IsAuthenticated])
def example_view(request, format=None):
    content = {
        'status': 'request was permitted'
    }
    return Response(content)
```

Provided they inherit from rest_framework.permissions.BasePermission, permissions can be composed using standard Python bitwise operators. For example, IsAuthenticatedOrReadOnly

---------------------


## API Reference:

- AllowAny:

The AllowAny permission class will allow unrestricted access, regardless of if the request was authenticated or unauthenticated.

- IsAuthenticated:

The IsAuthenticated permission class will deny permission to any unauthenticated user, and allow permission otherwise.

This permission is suitable if you want your API to only be accessible to registered users.

- ### IsAdminUser:

The IsAdminUser permission class will deny permission to any user, unless user.is_staff is True in which case permission will be allowed.

- ### IsAuthenticatedOrReadOnly:

The IsAuthenticatedOrReadOnly will allow authenticated users to perform any request. Requests for unauthorised users will only be permitted if the request method is one of the "safe" methods; GET, HEAD or OPTIONS.

- ### DjangoModelPermissions

- ### DjangoModelPermissionsOrAnonReadOnly:

Similar to DjangoModelPermissions, but also allows unauthenticated users to have read-only access to the API.

- ### DjangoObjectPermissions

- ### Custom permissions
To implement a custom permission, override BasePermission and implement either, or both, of the following methods:

. has_permission(self, request, view)

. has_object_permission(self, request, view, obj)

The methods should return True if the request should be granted access, and False otherwise.