## JSON Web Token:

JSON Web Token (JWT) is an open standard (RFC 7519) that defines a compact and self-contained way for securely transmitting information between parties as a JSON object.

## When should you use JSON Web Tokens?

1- Authorization

2- Information Exchange

## What is the JSON Web Token structure?

 * Header

 * Payload

 * Signature

## Header:

The header typically consists of two parts: the type of the token, which is JWT, and the signing algorithm being used, such as HMAC SHA256 or RSA.

## Payload:

The second part of the token is the payload, which contains the claims. Claims are statements about an entity (typically, the user) and additional data

### Registered claims:

These are a set of predefined claims which are not mandatory but recommended.

### Public claims:

These can be defined at will by those using JWTs. But to avoid collisions they should be defined in the IANA JSON Web Token Registry

### Private claims:

These are the custom claims created to share information between parties

### Signature:

To create the signature part you have to take the encoded header, the encoded payload, a secret, the algorithm specified in the header, and sign that.

## How do JSON Web Tokens work?

In authentication, when the user successfully logs in using their credentials, a JSON Web Token will be returned. Since tokens are credentials, great care must be taken to prevent security issues. In general, you should not keep tokens longer than required.

The JWT is acquired by exchanging an username + password for an access token and an refresh token.

The access token is usually short-lived (expires in 5 min or so, can be customized though).

The refresh token lives a little bit longer (expires in 24 hours, also customizable). It is comparable to an authentication session. After it expires, you need a full login with username + password again.

-------------------------------------------------------------

## Installation & Setup

``` pip install djangorestframework_simplejwt ```

settings.py

```
REST_FRAMEWORK = {
    'DEFAULT_AUTHENTICATION_CLASSES': [
        'rest_framework_simplejwt.authentication.JWTAuthentication',
    ],
}

```

urls.py

```
from django.urls import path
from rest_framework_simplejwt import views as jwt_views

urlpatterns = [
    # Your URLs...
    path('api/token/', jwt_views.TokenObtainPairView.as_view(), name='token_obtain_pair'),
    path('api/token/refresh/', jwt_views.TokenRefreshView.as_view(), name='token_refresh'),
]

```

## Refresh Token

To get a new access token, you should use the refresh token endpoint /api/token/refresh/ posting the refresh token.

--------------------------------------------------------------

## A Production Stack

A production setup usually consists of multiple components, each designed and built to be really good at one specific thing. They are fast, reliable and very focused.

If you want to run Django in production, be sure to use a production-ready web server like Nginx, and let your app be handled by a WSGI application server like Gunicorn.

If you plan on running on Heroku, a web server is provided implicitly. You don’t have to take care of it. You just need to specify a command to run your application server (again, Gunicorn is fine) in the Procfile.