## Managing Django Settings: Issues


**Different environments**:
    Each environment can have its own specific settings (for example: DEBUG = True, more verbose logging, additional apps, some mocked data, etc). You need an approach that allows you to keep all these Django setting configurations.

**Sensitive data.**

    You have SECRET_KEY in each Django project. On top of this there can be DB passwords and tokens for third-party APIs like Amazon or Twitter. This data cannot be stored in VCS.

**Sharing settings between team members.** 

    You need a general approach to eliminate human error when working with the settings. For example, a developer may add a third-party app or some API integration and fail to add specific settings. On large (or even mid-size) projects, this can cause real issues.

**Django settings are a Python code.** 

    This is a curse and a blessing at the same time. It gives you a lot of flexibility, but can also be a problem – instead of key-value pairs, settings.py can have a very tricky logic.

## Setting Configuration: Different Approaches:

## settings_local.py

### Pros:

    - Secrets not in VCS.

### Cons:

   - settings_local.py is not in VCS, so you can lose some of your Django environment settings.

   - The Django settings file is a Python code, so settings_local.py can have some non-obvious logic.

   - You need to have settings_local.example (in VCS) to share the default configurations for developers.


## Environment variables

To solve the issue with sensitive data, you can use environment variables.

    
    import os


            SECRET_KEY = os.environ['SECRET_KEY']
            DATABASES = {
                'default': {
                    'ENGINE': 'django.db.backends.postgresql',
                    'NAME': os.environ['DATABASE_NAME'],
                    'HOST': os.environ['DATABASE_HOST'],
                    'PORT': int(os.environ['DATABASE_PORT']),
                }
            }
    
```   
The Settings file is a small but very important part of any Django project. If you do it wrong, you’ll have a lot of issues during all phases of development. But if you do it right, it will be a good basis for your project that will allow it to grow and scale in the future.

Using the environment variables approach, you can easily switch from a monolith to microservice architecture, wrap your project in Docker containers, and deploy it in any VPS or Cloud hosting platform such as: Amazon, Google Cloud, or your own Kubernetes cluster.
```

------------------------------------

## SSH

    SSH, or Secure Shell, is a remote administration protocol that allows users to control and modify their remote servers over the Internet. The service was created as a secure replacement for the unencrypted Telnet and uses cryptographic techniques to ensure that all communication to and from the remote server happens in an encrypted manner. It provides a mechanism for authenticating a remote user, transferring inputs from the client to the host, and relaying the output back to the client.

## How Does SSH Work:

    The SSH command consists of 3 distinct parts:

### Different Encryption Techniques

### There are three different encryption technologies used by SSH:

    1- Symmetrical encryption
    2- Asymmetrical encryption
    3- Hashing.
