## Graphs

    A graph is a non-linear data structure that can be looked at as a collection of vertices (or nodes) potentially connected by line segments named edges.


## common terminology used  with Graphs:

    1-    Vertex - A vertex, also called a “node”, is a data object that can have zero or more adjacent vertices.
    2-    Edge - An edge is a connection between two nodes.
    3-    Neighbor - The neighbors of a node are its adjacent nodes, i.e., are connected via an edge.
    4-    Degree - The degree of a vertex is the number of edges connected to that vertex.

## Undirected Graphs:

An Undirected Graph is a graph where each edge is undirected or bi-directional. This means that the undirected graph does not move in any direction.

## Directed Graphs (Digraph):

A Directed Graph also called a Digraph is a graph where every edge is directed.

## Complete Graphs:

A complete graph is when all nodes are connected to all other nodes.

## Connected:

A connected graph is graph that has all of vertices/nodes have at least one edge.

## Disconnected:
A disconnected graph is a graph where some vertices may not have edges.

## Acyclic Graph

An acyclic graph is a directed graph without cycles.

A cycle is when a node can be traversed through and potentially end up back at itself.

## Cyclic Graphs

A Cyclic graph is a graph that has cycles.

A cycle is defined as a path of a positive length that starts and ends at the same vertex.

## Graph Representation
    represent graphs through:

    1- Adjacency Matrix
    2- Adjacency List


## Weighted Graphs

A weighted graph is a graph with numbers assigned to its edges. These numbers are called weights.

## Traversals

### Breadth First

### Depth First

----------------

## Real World Uses of Graphs

* GPS and Mapping

* Driving Directions

* Social Networks

* Airline Traffic

* Netflix uses graphs for suggestions of products

