## Whiteboard Interview Advice

## Restate the Question

You might actually be surprised to find you don’t fully understand what they’re asking for — perhaps the question is similar, but not the same, as a practice problem you have completed in the past. Using the tried-and-true fizz-buzz example, you could restate the problem as follows:

```

“So I’d like to restate the problem to you to make sure I understand what you’re looking for. The sole parameter for my function will be an integer. The sole output of my function will be an incrementing array, starting from the number 1 and ending at the input number.

```

## Ask About Edge Cases:

 It’s still not time to dive right into coding the solution. Think for a bit about the inputs and expected output and think about potential edge cases to the problem. Ask about them. In many cases.


## Ask About Test Cases:

 This is free and you should take advantage of it. Simply ask if there are any test cases that the function should pass. Your interviewer might be expecting you to ask this question, so it might be necessary.

## Write Pseudocode and Ask If It Makes Sense

 you can ask if your pseudocode makes sense to the interviewer. It’s possible they will be the type that doesn’t want to “give you hints,” but it’s also possible they’ll be more interested in how you think and want to discuss your pseudocode with you.


## Write the Actual Code and Ask if it Looks Good:

You should now convert your pseudocode into actual code. You don’t even need to remove the comments. At this point, you just need to plug the appropriate code for your language in.

-----------------------------------

## 6 tips to ace a programming interview

    1- Take a few minutes.

    2- Write down the steps of the solution.

    3- Write pseudocode first.

    4- Don’t sweat the small stuff.

    5- Sit down. Be humble.

    6- Come prepared.