## Conditional Rendering

 Conditional rendering in React works the same way conditions work in JavaScript. Use JavaScript operators like if or the conditional operator to create elements representing the current state, and let React update the UI to match them.


## Element Variables

 ou can use variables to store elements. This can help you conditionally render a part of the component while the rest of the output doesn’t change.

## Inline If with Logical && Operator

 You may embed expressions in JSX by wrapping them in curly braces. This includes the JavaScript logical && operator.

## Preventing Component from Rendering

 In rare cases you might want a component to hide itself even though it was rendered by another component. To do this return null instead of its render output.

------------------------

## Lists and Keys

***Rendering Multiple Components***

 You can build collections of elements and include them in JSX using curly braces {}.

 Below, we loop through the numbers array using the JavaScript map() function. We return a <li> element for each item. Finally, we assign the resulting array of elements to listItems:

```
const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
const listItems = numbers.map((number) =>
  <li>{number}</li>
);
```
We include the entire listItems array inside a < ul > element, and render it to the DOM:

```
ReactDOM.render(
  <ul>{listItems}</ul>,
  document.getElementById('root')
);

```
## Basic List Component
 Usually you would render lists inside a component.

 We can refactor the previous example into a component that accepts an array of numbers and outputs a list of elements.

```

function NumberList(props) {
  const numbers = props.numbers;
  const listItems = numbers.map((number) =>
    <li>{number}</li>
  );
  return (
    <ul>{listItems}</ul>
  );
}

 const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
 ReactDOM.render(
  <NumberList numbers={numbers} />,
  document.getElementById('root')
 );
```

## Keys
 Keys help React identify which items have changed, are added, or are removed. Keys should be given to the elements inside the array to give the elements a stable identity:
 ```
 const numbers = [1, 2, 3, 4, 5];
 const listItems = numbers.map((number) =>
  <li key={number.toString()}>
    {number}
  </li>
 );
 ```

----------------

## Forms
 HTML form elements work a bit differently from other DOM elements in React, because form elements naturally keep some internal state. For example, this form in plain HTML accepts a single name:

```
<form>
  <label>
    Name:
    <input type="text" name="name" />
  </label>
  <input type="submit" value="Submit" />
</form>
```

-------------------------

## Composition vs Inheritance

### Containment

 Some components don’t know their children ahead of time. This is especially common for components like Sidebar or Dialog that represent generic “boxes”.

 We recommend that such components use the special children prop to pass children elements directly into their output:

```
function FancyBorder(props) {
  return (
    <div className={'FancyBorder FancyBorder-' + props.color}>
      {props.children}
    </div>
  );
}
```

### 