## NextJs

## Assets, Metadata, and CSS

 Download Starter Code

 ``` npx create-next-app nextjs-blog --use-npm --example "https://github.com/vercel/next-learn/tree/master/basics/assets-metadata-css-starter" ```



## Assets

 Next.js can serve static assets, like images, under the top-level public directory. Files inside public can be referenced from the root of the application similar to pages.

 The public directory is also useful for robots.txt, Google Site Verification, and any other static assets. Check out the documentation for Static File Serving to learn more.

  * Download your profile picture in .jpg format (or use this file).

  * Create an images directory inside of the public directory.

  * Save the picture as profile.jpg in the public/images directory.

  * The image size can be around 400px by 400px.

  * You may remove the unused SVG logo file directly under the public directory.


 ## Using the Image Component

 Instead of optimizing images at build time, Next.js optimizes images on-demand, as users request them. Unlike static site generators and static-only solutions, your build times aren't increased, whether shipping 10 images or 10 million images.

Images are lazy loaded by default. That means your page speed isn't penalized for images outside the viewport. Images load as they are scrolled into viewport.

Images are always rendered in such a way as to avoid Cumulative Layout Shift, a Core Web Vital that Google is going to use in search ranking.

-----------------------------------------

## Metadata

 Adding Head to first-post.js

 Open the pages/posts/first-post.js file and add an import for Head from next/head at the beginning of the file:

 import Head from 'next/head'

Then, update the exported FirstPost component to include the Head component. For now, we‘ll add just the title tag:

```
 export default function FirstPost() {
  return (
 
      <Head>
        <title>First Post</title>
      </Head>
      <h1>First Post</h1>
      <h2>
        <Link href="/">
          <a>Back to home</a>
        </Link>
      </h2>
    </>
  )
 }
 ```

 
----------------

## CSS Styling

 Writing and Importing CSS
Next.js has built-in support for CSS and Sass which allows you to import .css and .scss files.

**Important: To use CSS Modules, the CSS file name must end with module.css**

 Import the CSS file and assign a name to it, like styles

 Use styles.container as the className

 Open components/layout.js and replace its content with the following:

import styles from './layout.module.css'

 ```
 export default function Layout({ children }) {
  return <div className={styles.container}>{children}</div>
 }
 ```

----------------------

## React Context for Beginners

 **What is React context?**

 React context allows us to pass down and use (consume) data in whatever component we need in our React app without using props.


### When should you use React context?

 React context is great when you are passing data that can be used in any component in your application.

 These types of data include:

* Theme data (like dark or light mode)
* User data (the currently authenticated user)
* Location-specific data (like user language or locale)

### How do I use React context?
 Context is an API that is built into React, starting from React version 16.

 This means that we can create and use context directly by importing React in any React project.

