## Dynamic Routes

## How to Statically Generate Pages with Dynamic Routes

 we want to create dynamic routes for blog posts:

 We want each post to have the path /posts/<id>, where <id> is the name of the markdown file under the top-level posts directory.

 Since we have ssg-ssr.md and pre-rendering.md, we’d like the paths to be /posts/ssg-ssr and /posts/pre-rendering.

 ### Overview of the Steps

We can do this by taking the following steps. You don’t have to make these changes yet — we’ll do it all on the next page.

First, we’ll create a page called [id].js under pages/posts. Pages that begin with [ and end with ] are dynamic routes in Next.js.

In pages/posts/[id].js, we’ll write code that will render a post page — just like other pages we’ve created.

We’ll export an async function called getStaticPaths from this page. In this function, we need to return a list of possible values for id.

Finally, we need to implement getStaticProps again - this time, to fetch necessary data for the blog post with a given id. getStaticProps is given params, which contains id (because the file name is [id].js).

-----

## Implement getStaticPaths

Create a file called [id].js inside the pages/posts directory.

Also, remove first-post.js inside the pages/posts directory — we’ll no longer use this.

Then, open pages/posts/[id].js

 open lib/posts.js and add the following getAllPostIds function at the bottom. It will return the list of file names (excluding .md) in the posts directory

 paths contains the array of known paths returned by getAllPostIds(), which include the params defined by pages/posts/[id].js. Learn more in the paths key documentation

Ignore fallback: false

We need to fetch necessary data to render the post with the given id.

To do so, open lib/posts.js again and add the following getPostData function at the bottom. It will return the post data based on id


### Render Markdown

To render markdown content, we’ll use the remark library. First, let’s install it:

``` npm install remark@13 remark-html@13 ```

----------------

## Deploying Your Next.js App

### Deploy to Vercel

Create a Vercel Account

First, go to https://vercel.com/signup to create a Vercel account. Choose Continue with GitHub and go through the sign up process.

Import your nextjs-blog repository

Once you’re signed up, import your nextjs-blog repository on Vercel. You can do so from here: https://vercel.com/import/git.

You’ll need to Install Vercel for GitHub. You can give it access to All Repositories.

Once you’ve installed Vercel, import nextjs-blog.

### Next.js and Vercel

Vercel is made by the creators of Next.js and has first-class support for Next.js. When you deploy your Next.js app to Vercel, the following happens by default:

Pages that use Static Generation and assets (JS, CSS, images, fonts, etc) will automatically be served from the Vercel Edge Network, which is blazingly fast.

Pages that use Server-Side Rendering and API routes will automatically become isolated Serverless Functions. This allows page rendering and API requests to scale infinitely.

**Vercel has many more features, such as:**

Custom Domains: Once deployed on Vercel, you can assign a custom domain to your Next.js app. Take a look at our documentation here.

Environment Variables: You can also set environment variables on Vercel. Take a look at our documentation here. You can then use those environment variables in your Next.js app.

Automatic HTTPS: HTTPS is enabled by default (including custom domains) and doesn't require extra configuration. We auto-renew SSL certificates.