## Dunder (Magic, Special) Methods

 What Are Dunder Methods?
In Python, special methods are a set of predefined methods you can use to enrich your classes. They are easy to recognize because they start and end with double underscores, for example __init__ or __str__.

## Special Methods and the Python Data Model

 This elegant design is known as the Python data model and lets developers tap into rich language features like sequences, iteration, operator overloading, attribute access, etc.

## Enriching a Simple Account Class
Throughout this article I will enrich a simple Python class with various dunder methods to unlock the following language features:

  Initialization of new objects

  Object representation

  Enable iteration

  Operator overloading (comparison)

  Operator overloading (addition)

   Method invocation

  Context manager support (with statement)

## Object Initialization: __ init __

Right upon starting my class I already need a special method. To construct account objects from the Account class I need a constructor which in Python is the __init__ dunder

----------------

## Python Iterators:

 instances of this Repeater class will repeatedly return a single value when iterated over. So the above example code would print the string Hello to the console forever.

RepeaterIterator looks like a straightforward Python class, but:

In the __init__ method we link each RepeaterIterator instance to the Repeater object that created it.
 That way we can hold on to the “source” object that’s being iterated over.

In RepeaterIterator.__next__, we reach back into the “source” Repeater instance and return the value associated with it.

## A Simpler Iterator Class
 First setting up and retrieving the iterator object with an iter() call, and then repeatedly fetching values from it via next().


### Python 2.x Compatible Iterators

All the code examples I showed here were written in Python 3. There’s a small but important difference between Python 2 and 3 when it comes to implementing class-based iterators:

In Python 3, the method that retrieves the next value from an iterator is called __next__.
In Python 2, the same method is called next (no underscores).

----------------------

## Python Generators

 - Generator functions are syntactic sugar for writing objects that support the iterator protocol. Generators abstract away much of the boilerplate code needed when writing class-based iterators.

 - The yield statement allows you to temporarily suspend execution of a generator function and to pass back values from it.

 - Generators start raising StopIteration exceptions after control flow leaves the generator function by any means other than a yield statement.