## open source project :

 ### First contributions
 
 is a hands-on tutorial that walks you through contributions workflow on GitHub. When you complete the tutorial, you have made a contribution to the same project.

 ### https://up-for-grabs.net 
 
 is a site that aggregates (rolls up and makes easy to explore) projects that actively want help. They label those projects

 ### goodfirstissues.com 
 
 is a site that aggregates the latest issues with the label “Good First Issue”, which is a GitHub feature for finding easy issues

 ### CodeTriage 

 helps you subscribe to your favorite open-source projects and get a new open issue from them in your inbox every day.

 ### goodfirstissue.dev
 
  curates easy pickings from popular open-source projects, and helps you make your first contribution to open-source.

-----------------------------

## GitHub’s Open Source

 ## How to Contribute to Open Source

 ### Improve existing skills

Whether it’s coding, user interface design, graphic design, writing, or organizing, if you’re looking for practice, there’s a task for you on an open source project.

### Meet people who are interested in similar things

Open source projects with warm, welcoming communities keep people coming back for years. Many people form lifelong friendships through their participation in open source, whether it’s running into each other at conferences or late night online chats about burritos.

### Find mentors and teach others

Working with others on a shared project means you’ll have to explain how you do things, as well as ask other people for help. The acts of learning and teaching can be a fulfilling activity for everyone involved.

### Learn people skills

Open source offers opportunities to practice leadership and management skills, such as resolving conflicts, organizing teams of people, and prioritizing work.


### Do you like to code?

- Find an open issue to tackle, like @dianjin did for Leaflet
- Ask if you can help write a new feature
- Automate project setup
- Improve tooling and testing

-----------------------

## What Motivates a Developer to Contribute to Open-Source Software?

 1. Improve Coding Skills

 2. Gain Early Experience

 3. Increase Community and Peer Recognition

 4. Greater Job Prospects

 5. Improve Software on a User and Business Level.





