## Error Handling & Debugging

To find the source of an error, it helps to know how scripts are processed. The order in which statements are executed can be complex; some tasks cannot complete until another statement or function has been run

The JavaScript interpreter uses the concept of execution contexts. There is one global execution context; plus, each function creates a new execution context. They correspond to variable scope. 


Every statement in a script lives in one of three execution contexts: 

GLOBAL CONTEXT Code that is in the script, but not in a function. There is only one global context in any page. 

FUNCTION CONTEXT Code that is being run within a function. Each function has its own function context. 

EVAL CONTEXT (NOT SHOWN) 

Text is executed like code in an internal function called eva l {) (which is not covered in this book). 

VARIABLE SCOPE 

GLOBAL SCOPE If a variable is declared outside a function, it can be used anywhere because it has global scope. If you do not use the var keyword when creating a variable, it is placed in global scope. 

FUNCTION-LEVEL SCOPE 

When a variable is declared within a function, it can only be used within that function. This is because it has function-level scope. 

------------

Each time a script enters a new execution context, there are two phases of activity:

1: PREPARE :

• The new scope is created

• Variables, functions, and arguments are created 

• The value of the this keyword is determined

2: EXECUTE

• Now it can assign values to variables 

• Reference functions and run their code 

• Execute statements


If a JavaScript statement generates an error, then it throws an exception. At that point, the interpreter stops and looks for exception-handl ing code.

------------

Error objects can help  find where your mistakes are and browsers have tools to help you read them. 

There are seven types of built-in error objects in JavaScript.

Error

Syntax Error

Syntax Errorr

TypeError 

Range Error 

URI Error

Eval Error

------------

**HOW TO DEAL WITH ERRORS**

1: DEBUG THE SCRIPT TO FIX ERRORS If you come across an error while writing a script (or when someone reports a bug), you will need to debug the code, track down the source of the error, and fix it. 

2: DEBUG THE SCRIPT TO FIX ERRORS If you come across an error while writing a script (or when someone reports a bug), you will need to debug the code, track down the source of the error, and fix it. 