## Images:

**Controlling sizes of images in CSS:**

background-position

When an image is not being repeated, you can use the background-position
 to specify where in the browser window the background image should be placed. This property usually has a pair of values. The first represents the horizontal position and the second represents the vertical

 left top

 left center

 left bottom

 center top

 center center

 center bottom

 right top

 right center

 right bottom


we can specify the dimensions of images using CSS. This is very helpful when you use the same sized images on several pages of your site.

 Images can be aligned both horizontally and vertically using CSS.

 we can use a background image behind the box created by any element on a page. 


 Background images can appear just once or be repeated across the background of the box.

 we can create image rollover effects by moving the background position of an image.

 To reduce the number of images your browser has to load, you can create image sprites.

 ------------

## Search Engine Optimization (SEO):

Search engine optimization (or SEO) is the practice of trying to help your site appear nearer the top of search engine results when people look for the topics that your website covers.

In order to determine who comes first in the search results, search engines do not only look at what appears on your site. They also consider how many sites link to you (and how relevant those links are). For this reason, SEO is often split into two areas: on-page techniques and off-page techniques.

**On-Page Techniques**

On-page techniques are the methods you can use on your web pages to improve their rating in search engines.

**Off-Page Techniques**

Getting other sites to link to you is just as important as on-page techniques. Search engines help determine how to rank your site by looking at the number of other sites that link to yours.

-----------

Search engine optimization helps visitors find your sites when using search engines.

 Analytics tools such as Google Analytics allow you to see how many people visit your site, how they find it, and what they do when they get there.

 To put your site on the web, you will need to obtain a domain name and web hosting.

 FTP programs allow you to transfer files from your local computer to your web server.

 Many companies provide platforms for blogging, email newsletters, e-commerce and other popular website tools (to save you writing them from scratch).