## charts:

Charts are far better for displaying data visually than tables and have the added benefit that no one is ever going to press-gang them into use as a layout tool. They’re easier to look at and convey data quickly,

A great way to get started with charts is with Chart.js, a JavaScript plugin that uses HTML5’s canvas element to draw the graph onto the page. It’s a well documented plugin that makes using all kinds of bar charts, line charts, pie charts and more, incredibly easy.


The first thing we need to do is download Chart.js. Copy the Chart.min.js out of the unzipped folder and into the directory you’ll be working in. Then create a new html page and import the script

**Drawing a line chart**

To draw a line chart, the first thing we need to do is create a canvas element in our HTML in which Chart.js can draw our chart. So add this to the body of our HTML page

**Drawing a pie chart**

Next, we need to get the context and to instantiate the chart:

`var countries= document.getElementById("countries").getContext("2d");new Chart(countries).Pie(pieData, pieOptions);You’ll notice that this time, we are going to supply some options to the chart.`

Next we need to create the data. This data is a little different to the line chart because the pie chart is simpler, we just need to supply a value and a color for each section.

**Drawing a bar chart**

Finally, let’s add  a bar chart to our page. Happily the syntax for the bar chart is very similar to the line chart we’ve already added. First, we add the canvas element:

`<canvas id="income" width="600" height="400"></canvas>`

Next, we retrieve the element and create the graph:

`var income = document.getElementById("income").getContext("2d");new Chart(income).Bar(barData);`