## Transforms:

With CSS3 came new ways to position and alter elements. Now general layout techniques can be revisited with alternative ways to size, position, and change elements. All of these new techniques are made possible by the transform property.

The transform property comes in two different settings, two-dimensional and three-dimensional. Each of these come with their own individual properties and values.

### Transform Syntax:

The actual syntax for the transform property is quite simple, including the transform property followed by the value. The value specifies the transform type followed by a specific amount inside parentheses.

`div {-webkit-transform: scale(1.5); -moz-transform: scale(1.5);-o-transform: scale(1.5);  transform: scale(1.5);}`

### 2D Transforms:

Elements may be distorted, or transformed, on both a two-dimensional plane or a three-dimensional plane. Two-dimensional transforms work on the x and y axes, known as horizontal and vertical axes. Three-dimensional transforms work on both the x and y axes, as well as the z axis. These three-dimensional transforms help define not only the length and width of an element, but also the depth. We’ll start by discussing how to transform elements on a two-dimensional plane, and then work our way into three-dimensional transforms.

**2D Rotate**

The transform property accepts a handful of different values. The rotate value provides the ability to rotate an element from 0 to 360 degrees. Using a positive value will rotate an element clockwise, and using a negative value will rotate the element counterclockwise. The default point of rotation is the center of the element, 50% 50%, both horizontally and vertically. Later we will discuss how you can change this default point of rotation.


**2D Scale**

Using the scale value within the transform property allows you to change the appeared size of an element. The default scale value is 1, therefore any value between .99 and .01 makes an element appear smaller while any value greater than or equal to 1.01 makes an element appear larger.

**2D Translate**

The translate value works a bit like that of relative positioning, pushing and pulling an element in different directions without interrupting the normal flow of the document. Using the translateX value will change the position of an element on the horizontal axis while using the translateY value will change the position of an element on the vertical axis.

As with the scale value, to set both the x and y axis values at once, use the translate value and declare the x axis value first, followed by a comma, and then the y axis value.


**2D Skew**

The last transform value in the group, skew, is used to distort elements on the horizontal axis, vertical axis, or both. The syntax is very similar to that of the scale and translate values. Using the skewX value distorts an element on the horizontal axis while the skewY value distorts an element on the vertical axis. To distort an element on both axes the skew value is used, declaring the x axis value first, followed by a comma, and then the y axis value.%p

**Combining Transforms**

It is common for multiple transforms to be used at once, rotating and scaling the size of an element at the same time for example. In this event multiple transforms can be combined together. To combine transforms, list the transform values within the transform property one after the other without the use of commas.

------------

## Transitions:

There are four transition related properties in total, including transition-property, transition-duration, transition-timing-function, and transition-delay. Not all of these are required to build a transition, with the first three are the most popular.

**Transitional Property**

The transition-property property determines exactly what properties will be altered in conjunction with the other transitional properties. By default, all of the properties within an element’s different states will be altered upon change. However, only the properties identified within the transition-property value will be affected by any transitions.

**Transitional Properties**

It is important to note, not all properties may be transitioned, only properties that have an identifiable halfway point. Colors, font sizes, and the alike may be transitioned from one value to another as they have recognizable values in-between one another. The display property, for example, may not be transitioned as it does not have any midpoint