Hello,

**In this reading we will focus on how to add markup to the text that appears n ourr page**

>Structural markup: the elements that we can use to describe both headings and paragraphs

>Semantic markup: which provides extra information; such as where emphasis is placed in a sentence, that something meaning of acronyms, and so on

**HTML has six "levels" of headings:**
**< h1 > is used for main headings**

**< h2 > is used for subheadings**

**If there are further sections under the subheadings then the < h3 > element is used, and so on**

## To create a paragraph, surround the words that make up the paragraph with an opening < p > tag and closing < /p > tag.

The < sup > element is used 
to contain characters that 
should be superscript such 
as the suffixes of dates or 
mathematical concepts like 
raising a number to a power such 
as 22
.

**The < sub > element is used to contain characters that should be subscript. It is commonly used with foot notes or chemical formulas such as H20.**


<cite>
When you are referencing a 
piece of work such as a book, 
film or research paper, the 

<cite> element can be used 
to indicate where the citation is from


**HTML elements are used to describe the structure of  the page (e.g. headings, subheadings, paragraphs)**

 **They also provide semantic information (e.g. where emphasis should be placed, the definition of any acronyms used, when given text is a quotation)**


 -----------------------------------------------------------------

 ## A script is a series of instructions that a computer can follow one-by-one. Each individual instruction or step is known as a statement. Statements should end with a semicolon.

 **We should write comments to explain what your code does. They help make your code easier to read and understand. This can help you and others who read your code.**



 **A script will have to temporarily store the bits of information it needs to do its job. It can store this data in variables. When you write JavaScript, you have to tell the interpreter every individual step that you want it toperform. This sometimes involves more detail than you might expect. Think about calculating the area of a wall; in math the area of a rectangle is obtained by multiplying two numbers: width x height = area**


 **A switch statement starts with a variable called the switch value. Each case indicates a possible value for this variable and the code that should run if the variable matches that value.**

 