### Links: 
are the defining feature of the web because they allow us to move from one web page to another — enabling the very idea of browsing or surfing.

Links are created using the < a > element. Users can click on anything between the opening < a > tag and the closing < /a > tag. we specify which page we want to link to using the href attribute.

**Linking to Other Sites**

Links are created using the < a>element which has an attribute called href. The value of the href attribute is the page that you want people to go to when they click on the link.Users can click on anything that appears between the opening < a> tag and the closing < /a>tag and will be taken to the page specified in the href attribute.When you link to a different website, the value of the hrefattribute will be the full web address for the site, which is known as an absolute URL.

< a href="www.google.com">Google< /a >


**Linking to Other Pages on the Same Site**

When you are linking to other pages within the same site, you do not need to specify the domain name in the URL. You can use a shorthand known as a relative URL.If all the pages of the site are in the same folder, then the value of the href attribute is just the name of the file.

< a href="index.html">Home< /a >

**Relative URLs:**

Relative URLs can be used when linking to pages within your own website. They provide a shorthand way of telling the browser where to find your files.

**Email Links**:

To create a link that starts up the user's email program and addresses an email to a specified email address, you use the < a> element. However, this time the value of the href attribute starts with mailto: and is followed by the email address you want the email to be sent to.

< a href="mailto:jon@example.org">Email Jon< /a>

**Opening Links in a New Window**:

If you want a link to open in a new window, you can use the target attribute on the opening < a> tag. The value of this attribute should be _blank.

< a href="http://www.google.com" target="_blank">

**Linking to a Specific Part of the Same Page**:

To link to an element that uses an id attribute you use the < a>element again, but the value of the href attribute starts with the # symbol, followed by the value of the id attribute of the element you want to link to. In this example, < a href="#top">links to the < h1> element at the top of the page whose idattribute has a value of top.

**Linking to a Specific Part of Another Page**:

As long as the page you are linking to has id attributes that identify specific parts of the page, you can simply add the same syntax to the end of the link for that page.

For example, to link to the bottom of the homepage of the website that accompanies this book, you would write:< a href="http:/www.htmlandcssbookcom/#bottom">

-----------------------------

**Key Concepts in Positioning Elements**:

CSS treats each HTML element as if it is in its own box. This box will either be a block-levebox or an inline box.Block-level boxes start on a new line and act as the main building blocks of any layout, while inline boxes flow between surrounding text. You can control how much space each box takes up by setting the width of the boxes (and sometimes the height, too). To separate boxes, you can use borders, margins, padding, and background colors.

Block-level elementsstart on a new line

Examples include:

< h1> < p> < ul> < li>

Inline elementsflow in between surrounding text

Examples include:

< img> < b> < i>


**Containing Elements**:

If one block-level element sits inside another block-level element then the outer box is known as the containing or parent element.

**Normal flow:**
Every block-level element appears on a new line, causing each item to appear lower down the page than the previous one. Even if you specify the width of the boxes and there is space for two elements to sit side-byside, they will not appear next to each other. This is the default behavior (unless you tell the browser to do something else).

**Relative Positioning:**

This moves an element from the position it would be in normal flow, shifting it to the top, right, bottom, or left of where it would have been placed. This does not affect the position of surrounding elements; they stay in the position they would be in in normal flow.

**Absolute positioning:**

This positions the element in relation to its containing element. It is taken out of normal flow, meaning that it does not affect the position of any surrounding elements (as they simply ignore the space it would have taken up). Absolutely positioned elements move as users scroll up and down the page.


**Liquid Layouts:**

Liquid layout designs stretch and contract as the user increases or decreases the size of their browser window. They tend to use percentages.

**Grids help create professional and flexible designs.**

**CSS Frameworks provide rules for common tasks.**

**You can include multiple CSS files in one page.**

--------------------

**Functions**

let you group a series of statements together to perform a specific task. If different parts of a script repeat the same task, you can reuse the function (rather than repeating the same set of statements).

-------------------------

**Why pair program?**

1. Greater efficiency
2. Engaged collaboration
3. Learning from fellow students
4. Social skills
5. Job interview readiness
6. Work environment readiness