Objects group together a set of variables and functions to create a model of a something you would recognize from the real world. In an object, variables and functions take on new names.

IN AN OBJECT: VARIABLES BECOME KNOWN AS PROPERTIES ,If a variable is part of an object, it is called a property. Properties tell us about the object, such as the name of a hotel or the number of rooms it has. Each individual hotel might have a different name and a different number of rooms. 

IN AN OBJECT: FUNCTIONS BECOME KNOWN AS METHODS If a function is part of an object, it is called a method. Methods represent tasks that are associated with the object. For example, you can check how many rooms are available by subtracting the number of booked rooms from the total number of rooms. 


In JavaScript: 

• Variables have a name and you can assign them a value of a string, number, or Boolean. 

• Arrays have a name and a group of values. (Each item in an array is a name/value pair because it has an index number and a value.) 

• Named functions have a name and value that is a set of statements to run if the function is called. 

• Objects consist of a set of name/value pairs (but the names are referred to as keys). 

---------------


**WORKING WITH THE DOM TREE**

Accessing and updating the DOM tree involves two steps:

1: Locate the node that represents the element you want to work with. 

2: Use its text content, child elements, and attributes.

SELECT AN INDIVIDUAL ELEMENT NODE:

three common ways to select an individual element: 

get El ement Byld () 

Uses the value of an element's id attribute (which should be unique within the page).

querySe 1 ector () 

Uses a CSS selector, and returns the first matching element. You can also select individual elements by traversing from one element to another within the DOM tree

SELECT MULTIPLE ELEMENTS (NODELISTS) 

There are three common ways to select multiple elements. 

getElementsByClassName() 

Selects all elements that have a specific value for their cl ass attribute. 

getElementsByTagName() 

Selects all elements that have the specified tag name .. 

querySelectorAll() 

Uses a CSS selector to select all matching elements.


TRAVERSING BETWEEN ELEMENT NODES 

parentNode 

Selects the parent of the current element node (which will return just one element). 

previousSibl ing / nextSibl ing

Selects the previous or next sibling from the DOM tree. 

firstChild / lastChild 

Select the first or last child of the current element. 