## Tables

A table represents information in a grid format. Examples of tables include financial reports, TV schedules, and sports results.

**Table Structure**

< table>

The < table> element is used to create a table. The contents of the table are written out row by row.

< tr>

You indicate the start of each row using the opening < tr> tag. (The tr stands for table row.) It is followed by one or more 

< td>

 elements (one for each cell in that row). At the end of the row you use a closing < /tr> tag.< td>Each cell of a table is represented using a < td>element. (The td stands for table data.)At the end of each cell you use a closing < /td> tag


 Table Headings:

 < th>

The < th> element is used just like the < td> element but its purpose is to represent the heading for either a column or a row. (The th stands for table heading.) 


Even if a cell has no content, you should still use a < td> or < th> element to represent the presence of an empty cell otherwise the table will not render correctly

Using < th> elements for headings helps people who use screen readers, improves the ability for search engines to index your pages, and also enables you to control the appearance of tables better when you start to use CSS.You can use the scope attribute on the < th> element to indicate whether it is a heading for a column or a row. It can take the values: row to indicate a heading for a row or col to indicate a heading for a column.


Spanning ColumnS

The colspan attribute can be used on a < th> or < td> element and indicates how many columns that cell should run across.

Spanning Rows

The rowspan attribute can be used on a < th> or < td> element to indicate how many rows a cell should span down the table.


Long Tables:

< thead>

The headings of the table should sit inside the < thead> element. 

< tbody>

The body should sit inside the < tbody> element. 

< tfoot>

The footer belongs inside the < tfoot> element


-----------------------------


 OBJECTS USING CONSTRUCTOR SYNTAX

Functions allow you to group a set of related statements together that represent a single task. 

Functions can take parameters (informatiorJ required 
to do their job) and may return a value. 

An object is a series of variables and functions that represent something from the world around you. In an object, variables are known as properties of the object; functions are known as methods of the object. 

Web browsers implement objects that represent both the browser window and the document loaded into the browser window. 

JavaScript also has several built-in objects such as String, Number, Math, and Date. Their properties and methods offer functionality that help you write scripts. 

Arrays and objects can be used to create complex data 
sets (and both can contain the other). 