Key Concepts in Positioning Elements:

CSS treats each HTML element as if it is in its own box. This box will either be a block-levebox or an inline box.Block-level boxes start on a new line and act as the main building blocks of any layout, while inline boxes flow between surrounding text. You can control how much space each box takes up by setting the width of the boxes (and sometimes the height, too). To separate boxes, you can use borders, margins, padding, and background colors.

Block-level elementsstart on a new line

Examples include:

< h1> < p> < ul> < li>

Inline elementsflow in between surrounding text

Examples include:

< img> < b> < i>

Containing Elements:

If one block-level element sits inside another block-level element then the outer box is known as the containing or parent element.

Normal flow: Every block-level element appears on a new line, causing each item to appear lower down the page than the previous one. Even if you specify the width of the boxes and there is space for two elements to sit side-byside, they will not appear next to each other. This is the default behavior (unless you tell the browser to do something else).

Relative Positioning:

This moves an element from the position it would be in normal flow, shifting it to the top, right, bottom, or left of where it would have been placed. This does not affect the position of surrounding elements; they stay in the position they would be in in normal flow.

Absolute positioning:

This positions the element in relation to its containing element. It is taken out of normal flow, meaning that it does not affect the position of any surrounding elements (as they simply ignore the space it would have taken up). Absolutely positioned elements move as users scroll up and down the page.

Liquid Layouts:

Liquid layout designs stretch and contract as the user increases or decreases the size of their browser window. They tend to use percentages.

Grids help create professional and flexible designs.

CSS Frameworks provide rules for common tasks.

You can include multiple CSS files in one page.

-------------

### Grid

● Creates a continuity between different pages which may use different designs


● Helps users predict where to find information on various pages

● Makes it easier to add new content to the site in a consistent way

● Helps people collaborate on the design of a site in a consistent way


------------

**Multiple Style Sheets**

There are two ways to add multiple style sheets to a page:

1: Your HTML page can link to one style sheet and that stylesheet can use the @importrule to import other style sheets.

2: In the HTML you can use a separate <link> element for each style sheet.

------------


### Summary

* < div> elements are often used as containing elements to group together sections of a page.

* Browsers display pages in normal flow unless you specify relative, absolute, or fixed positioning.

* The float property moves content to the left or right of the page and can be used to create multi-column layouts. (Floated items require a defined width.)

* Pages can be fixed width or liquid (stretchy) layouts.

* Designers keep pages within 960-1000 pixels wide, and indicate what the site is about within the top 600 pixels (to demonstrate its relevance without scrolling).

* Grids help create professional and flexible designs.

* CSS Frameworks provide rules for common tasks.

* You can include multiple CSS files in one page.